Well,
what do you feel probably was the most important
thing that you did while you were at A&M, the most
important of all the things we've discussed, that
had the greatest? You're talking about me
personally? Mm-hmm, you.
Well, I think you're right. Over the many years
that I worked here, the thing that was most
important was that I had a part in some of the
organizations
and changes in attitude about communications
from the student to the top and then from the top
down to the student.
This is manifested by the fact that we had a
counseling program for the first time. We had a
testing program. We had a good organized loan
program. And I didn't do this myself, but I was one
of the people that worked on it all the time with
many others, counselors, and chief of housing,
and the dean, and some of the academic people. and
Wayne Stark in the Memorial Student Center. We
worked with him a lot on some of these things. And we
got
a lot of programs started that had never been
instituted at A&M. And we think all of these
things, through the long pull, kept student
attitude good. And it's given them better
education.
Well, just like in our discipline attitude, we
didn't just call them in and tell them they'd been
bad boys and we were going to kick them out of
school. But we didn't ever say we'd kick you out.
We'd say you're suspended for a period of time,
that you go out and reflect and think about this. We
never closed the door on the guy. Now, when I came
here, we found a lot of students that had been
dismissed, and this meant they couldn't ever come
back. One of the first things that I did was went to
the president, Mr. Gilkes, and I said, Mr. Gilkes,
now here's a guy, a good guy, I know him, but I've
talked to him a number of times. He's been
dismissed from A&M, and he's been told he can't
ever come back, but he wants to finish his
education. And I'd like to go before the executive
committee and plea for these guys, because it
isn't right to kick a kid out of school and say he
can't ever go back again. Just for one mistake. So
the executive committee, now this is, I got to take
pride in that because we did this as a Dean of
Students organization and I was the speaker for
them and Mr. Gilkes joined with me and he plugged
for this at the executive committee and they voted
to let every one of you guys back in school. Every
one of them was readmitted and so far as I know only
one man since that time has been dismissed from
A&M.
We changed, we had, we kept meticulous and minute
detailed records for a long time. And we finally
found out that this is hurting students. And we had
a confidential file that we needed to keep. But we,
before I left that office over there, I got
permission from the dean to destroy two or three,
two and a half time truckloads of records. because
they had a lot of little things about students when
they were freshmen and sophomores that could be
held against them for a lifetime. And they were not
serious enough. They were bad, like lying and
cheating and stealing and getting drunk and
beating up some poor old guy downtown or something
like that. We didn't think this was bad, but it's
not enough to jeopardize a guy for a lifetime. So I
think through the years that this is the thing that
a lot of us, Mr. Gilchrist, I'd say was a
predominant figure in this kind of an attitude,
and Mr. Rudder, Dean Hannigan, Ken Berthe, Bob
Kahn, Doe Rollins, Bob Murray, WG Brazil, Perry,
Melcher,
Oates.
I could probably name some others, but these are
guys that were dedicated to this. And we talked
about it, and we talked to a lot of other people and
got their support. But all of these things have
helped, not completely, but helped develop a good
publication board and a good to a publication
program and all of these other things like
placement and loan and so on. I don't know whether
that answers your question or not. I think that
does a pretty good job of it. Well, we certainly
appreciate it. I think you've covered lots of
ground. Well, I hope you find something in there
that might be good for your records.